README.md, before:

### Date created

2023-11-13

### Explore US Bikeshare Data

In this project, i use of Python to explore data related to bike share systems for three major cities in the United States—Chicago, New York City, and Washington. I will write code to import the data and answer interesting questions about it by computing descriptive statistics. I will also write a script that takes in raw input to create an interactive experience in the terminal to present these statistics.

### Description

The following software requirements apply:

- Project requires Python 3, NumPy, and pandas installed using Anaconda
- A text editor, like [Sublime](https://www.sublimetext.com/) or [Atom](https://github.blog/2022-06-08-sunsetting-atom/).
- A terminal application (Terminal on Mac and Linux or Cygwin on Windows).


### Files used

- bikeshare.py: contains source code analysis data
- chicago.csv: data file download from [here](https://divvybikes.com/system-data)
- new_york_city.csv: data file download from [here](https://citibikenyc.com/system-data)
- washington.csv: data file download from [here](https://capitalbikeshare.com/system-data)

### Installation

- clone this repository
- Download 3 data files mentioned in Files used section
- Run project by command `python bikeshare.py`

### Author:

[MinhNT34](https://github.com/minhhn999)

### License:

[MIT License](https://opensource.org/license/mit/)

Commit message:

docs: improve document by adding features section info

README.md, after:

### Date created

2023-11-13

### Explore US Bikeshare Data

In this project, i use of Python to explore data related to bike share systems for three major cities in the United States—Chicago, New York City, and Washington. I will write code to import the data and answer interesting questions about it by computing descriptive statistics. I will also write a script that takes in raw input to create an interactive experience in the terminal to present these statistics.

### Description

The following software requirements apply:

- Project requires Python 3, NumPy, and pandas installed using Anaconda
- A text editor, like [Sublime](https://www.sublimetext.com/) or [Atom](https://github.blog/2022-06-08-sunsetting-atom/).
- A terminal application (Terminal on Mac and Linux or Cygwin on Windows).

### Features

Project includes the following features by interactive with user from command prompt:

- Calculate and display for user the Popular times of travel (most common for month, day of week, hour of day)
- Calculate and display for user the Popular stations and trip (most common for start station, end station and combination of start and end station)
- Calculate and display for user the Trip duration (total travel time, average travel time)
- Calculate and display for user the User info (counts of user type, counts of each gender, display earliest, month recent, most common year of birth)

### Files used

- bikeshare.py: contains source code analysis data
- chicago.csv: data file download from [here](https://divvybikes.com/system-data)
- new_york_city.csv: data file download from [here](https://citibikenyc.com/system-data)
- washington.csv: data file download from [here](https://capitalbikeshare.com/system-data)

### Installation

- clone this repository
- Download 3 data files mentioned in Files used section
- Run project by command `python bikeshare.py`

### Author:

[MinhNT34](https://github.com/minhhn999)

### License:

[MIT License](https://opensource.org/license/mit/)
